DOCS-640 managing groups how-to (#142)
freenas/documentation: content/en/docs/tasks/administrative/groups.md

description: "A how-to for managing Groups in TrueNAS."
---

Using groups in TrueNAS can be an efficient way of managing permissions for
users. See <a href="/docs/tasks/administrative/users/">users</a> for managing
users. The interface provides management of UNIX-style groups. If the network
uses a directory service, import the existing account information using the
instructions in
<a href="/docs/initial-setup/directory-services/">Directory Services</a>.

> NOTE: TrueNAS hides all builtin groups by default. To show all builtin groups,
> go to **Accounts > Groups** and click <i class="fas fa-cog"></i>.

## Group Configuration

Each group is assigned a Group ID (GID). Enter a number above 1000 for a group
with user accounts. The GID cannot be changed later. Groups used by a service
must have an ID that matches the default port number used by the service. Next,
enter a descriptive name for the group. Group names cannot begin with a hyphen
(-) or contain a space, tab, or these characters: *, : + & # % ^ ( ) ! @ ~ \* ?
< > =*. The dollar sign ($) can only be used as the last character of the
username. By default, the *Permit Sudo* option is unset. When set, it allows

> members of the group to use the commands with `sudo`. It is recommended to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
group members to act as the root account by using `sudo`. It is recommended to
```

leave this unset. The option *Samba Authentication* is set by default. This

> options allows the group to be used for Samba permissions and authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option allows the group to be used for Samba permissions and authentication.
```
